Questions to Answer:
-------------------

- What is the specific research/project question.
- Where to get plant characteristics?
- 

Things to Do:

-Ensure that these predictions of LFMC are actually useful.
-


Ideas:

-Plants can be categoirzed into so called high-responding and low-responding which reflects their correlation to seasonal variation 
or immediate rainfall. Broadly speaking drought indices/meteorological data appears to generate decent predictions of around = 0.8 (see spanish study)
But, the spatial variance and especially the results for low-responding plants are much poorer as suggested by the evaluation of drought indices article.
That article also suggests that improvements can be made with more mechanistic indices that take into account plant traits (such as low responding plants 
having longer roots), local parametrization of soil characteristics, vegetation cover, etc. More mechanistic drought index is potentially RWC.

-Drought indices are usually just calculated in some way from meteorological data. 

- Some studies have indicated the potential of NDVI + LST to make decent estimates for something such as grasslands (maybe can just be
retrained on other species? Authors note would potentially be difficult on species that do not have as strong a relationship
between vegetation moisture content and greenness( chlorophyll content). 

"In spite of the great potential and interest that approaches based on RTM have for FMC estimation, empirical fittings are also critical for operational applications because they
provide faster and easily operated models of known accuracy. Additionally, RTM models do not include thermal information that is vital, especially in fuels which are more
adapted to summer drought, which is the case in most Mediterranean shrubs. In these species, FMC cannot be accurately estimated using just NDVI values because chro-
lophyll and LAI changes caused by FMC variations are less apparent in shrub species than in grasslands. The applicability of the empirical model to other shrub
species may be based on their physiological similarities with C. ladanifer. The paper has shown that FMC trends of R.
officinalis are also well estimated from the empirical model. A more physical basis to extend this to other shrub species should rely on physiological differences between the refer-
ence and the desired species, which may be based on specific leaf weight or LAI factors, but this hypothesis should be tested in future work"

- Potential idea is maybe bring in plant characteristics (that's a ton of parameters) to help in this estimation? Maybe gives some spatial robustness.
- Other potential idea is maybe plant characteristics (especially the ones that relate between water content and cholorphyll levels) are considered
a latent variable and might come out in clustering in some way(not sure if thinking about this correctly). 
- So now I am thinking a combination of straightforward meteo index (similar to spanish study) + NDVI + LST + lots of plant characteristics + geo location in some combination?


Potential Data needed:

Meteorological data

Temperature
Humidity
Solar radiation (net, global)
Wind

Mechanistic data

Soil Temperature
Soil water reserve
Vegetation cover
Soil properties(type of soil, how much it can absorb water? insert science here)

Plant data

root length
root thickness
leaf size
plant type
plant size

Temporal data

season
proximity to wildfire

